welcome back ladies and gentlemans to
another CHP episode Lazlo Montgomery
here bringing you part two in this long
requested series that will cover the
main events and history of the warlord
era in China the one we remember most
that lasted from 1916 to 1928 and into
the Nanjing decade patreon.com China
history podcast you'll find me in there
the link is in the show notes please
show your support for the CHP in the
previous episode we saw how these local
young gang militias often referred to as
Braves in Hunan and anway led by Don
Juan and li hung-chang
came to the aid of the Qing government
and delivered to home show Chen and his
Taiping rebels the final knockout
punches that ultimately led to the
conclusion of that long and bloody civil
war and after the venerable zeng guofan
passed in 1872 it was his protege li
hung-chang
who would lead the qing dynasty's
military modernization efforts for
better or for worse and then we left off
with the ear to all the military and
diplomatic endeavors and achievements
started by li hung-chang
and this wasn't sure kai i mentioned
that some historians call urine the
first warlord man away he was I mean you
could judge for yourselves I mentioned
last episode that he was one of Li
Hongzhang people he got his start in
Korea and served there admirably for a
decade at first he made himself useful
to the Chang royal court helping Empress
Dowager Tzu she put an end to the 1898
hundred days reforms of her nephew the
Guangxu Emperor then he lined up against
her during the Boxer Rebellion and
finally upon sushis death in 1908 the
Ching Royals sent you ensure Kai packing
fearful of his growing power and
influence now in between the time of his
sack
up to the time of the october 1911 will
chang uprising on double ten day en
shirk i was back in his home province of
Hunan planning his next move and when
the very survival of the dynasty was at
stake that Shing Royals went back to un
cap in hand and inquired if he'd be
willing to come to their defense his two
main protégées who we'll hear about next
episode dawnchere a and fungo chung they
were his eyes and airs during this time
and kept him informed about all the
events he was missing out on and that's
where we can pick up the story today and
run with it again sure chi was 52 years
old at the time of the Wu Chun uprising
younger than me in his role as the most
powerful person in China thanks to his
control of the bay young army and the
klique of generals and officers in that
organization it a very strong
negotiating position the
government led by empress dowager long u
former empress consort to the gwangju
emperor showered you and sure chi with
attractive offers keeping your n on
their side at this life-or-death moment
to the Ching dynasty was never more
critical when they were laying their
limited number of cards on the table
UN's army gave Sun yat-sen and his
followers a little pressure by taking
back the cities of Hanyang and Han co2
of the three cities that make up will
Han Liu Chung was still in the hands of
the revolutionaries with un taking this
action Sun didn't know for sure which
side you in shirk I stood on so the
Empress Dowager long you and her court
knew their fate rested in UN's hands the
southern revolutionary leaders whose
main objective was the downfall of the
Ching had no shortage of volunteers and
supporters willing to fight for them but
the armies they cobbled together were
weak and the soldiers had little or no
training and besides all that there
weren't even enough rifles and bullets
to go around and because of the nature
of their organization well none of the
foreign powers were willing to risk
extending loans to these southern based
revolutionaries in late December 1911 a
couple months after the wool Chung
uprising Sun yat-sen and his followers
took stock of their situation and knew
for the sake of national unity they had
start a dialogue with you and sure Kai
Sun had said quote it is true that your
insurer Chi is not trustworthy yet we
can use him to overthrow the 260 year
Manchu tyrannical rule it would be
better to do this than to launch a war
by sacrificing over a hundred thousand
troops to achieve the same goal end
quote
in other words better to cut a deal than
risk an all-out Civil War with a very
well-armed to you ensure Chi and his Bey
on-click the one task by Sun yat-sen to
represent their interests was Li Ren
Hong you'll hear his name plenty in the
episodes to come he had already begun
discussions with you and sure Kai and
November 1911 progress had been made but
no solution was agreed to by the two
sides on December 18th 1911 a National
Assembly in Nanjing was held to vote on
the matter of president and then two
days later in December 20th
representatives from seventeen provinces
voted and chose Sun yat-sen as the first
president of the Republic in a New
Year's Day 1912 Sun yat-sen was sworn in
and just as Mao Zedong would do a little
over 38 years later Sun yat-sen declared
the founding of the Republic of China
but son and his tonk Hmong way her
United League supporters knew they were
too weak to stand up to UN and being in
a position to challenge yan and his Bey
young army was all wishful thinking they
had to give Genscher Chi a little more
face than he was getting the fate of the
Manchu Royals up in Beijing was still in
limbo they were desperately trying to
stay in the game but their fate rested
entirely in yet sir Kai's hands
the child Emperor is Regent the Empress
Dowager long you had not yet abdicated
Sun yat-sen proposed to Yin and if you
force this abdication I'll pass the
provisional presidency of the Republic
on to you the insure Kai sentiments
leaned more in the direction of a
constitutional monarchy but given
China's millennia old historical
tradition of Emperor's he was not alone
in thinking this was a more appropriate
form of government yan truly believed
then I guess you could say rightly so
that a republic wasn't suitable for
China and all it would do was lead to
civil war and continued unrest but
beyond UN's core supporters there wasn't
much excitement about keeping the
Emperor UN could have gone against the
tide of history and tried to preserve
the great ching dynasty but rather than
doing that he cut a better deal with the
revolutionary leaders of the south and
with a full-court press of political
pressure led by your ends right-hand man
Duan shear a on February 12 1912 the
last Emperor Puyi
abdicated and a few days later you
ensure Chi as promised by Sun yat-sen
and his followers was elected the
provisional president down in Nanjing
this was the high point of the
revolution in the days and weeks that
followed the mood in both Nanjing where
the revolutionaries were based and up in
Beijing home turf of the Bey young army
was in a word a boolean no one at that
time knew anything about World War One
or Japanese aggression in China the
second sino-japanese war world war two
and the rise of the Communists all these
things that defined early 20th century
Chinese history that was all beyond the
horizon Sun had expected that your n
would take up his new leadership
position in Nanjing where their
government was based but your n didn't
take them up on that offer and said
he'll run things from the north for now
you're in shock I was the man
the our and for more than one source he
was lionized as China's George
Washington the father of the country
such heady times in early 1912 so much
sweet-talking went on between you and
shark I and Sun yat-sen and their
followers but deep inside Sun knew a
strong man such as your n was the best
bad choice available and for the time
being they had to make it work
after all the revolutionaries were happy
they wanted the end of the Ching dynasty
and they got it by the way as part of
the plan to push them over the edge and
force an abdication UN offered a very
sweet deal to the royal family that
allowed them to remain in the Forbidden
City receive a generous four million
dollar annual stipend and no one was
allowed to molest or injure them now
considering what was usually the Fate
for overthrown monarchs it wasn't a bad
ending for them better than what the
Romanovs got the big winner by far was
the Bey young cleek led by its leader
you ain't sure Kai he was now head of
the Republic everyone on all sides was
outwardly getting along and there was
this feeling in the air that this
Republic of China thing might work out
after all but as we'll find out this
turned out to be one of the biggest
cases of Hong Kong among in modern
Chinese history they all shared the same
bed but both sides had completely
different dreams almost from the outset
there was trouble brewing un shirk I was
a military man and he knew very little
about this new government system as
president he thought he was the main man
but under the current parliamentary
system the real power at the top was
vested in the premier who at this time
was Tong Xiao Yi you may recall maybe
not he was the mentor to Wellington ku
and gave him his first big break and
allowed him to marry his daughter
Wellington Combe we looked at him in chb
episodes 2 14 and 15
though Tong Xiao Yi was close to yen he
quickly saw that your en didn't like
being the number two guy and this is
where everything started to go downhill
within a couple months Tong Xiao Yi
threw in the towel and resigned as the
first premier of the ROC your insurer
CAI was like a bull in a china shop he
did some good things I mean he did
attempt some kind of political
reconciliation and hope to unify China
he promoted education and many other
reforms but all the good you ain't sure
Kai tried to promote all took a back
seat to his top priority of
consolidating his power over the next
few years many of the big names of the
warlord era will start to emerge as year
and starts gaming the political system
and slotting them in various government
positions financially you and sure Kai
wasn't dire straits the revenue coming
into the country after most of it was
siphoned off to the foreign powers to
pay for these loans and indemnities was
minuscule at best China was getting by
on foreign loans the future was looking
bleak in the honeymoon period between
the coalition and the south
led by Sun yat-sen and yen in the north
was a short one and this was looking
more and more like a shotgun wedding and
after the KMT founded by some children
in August 1912 by joining together
various competing factions after they
won big and the elections held at the
end of 1912 early 1913 the politically
astute knew trouble was brewing some
children had more than a few enemies
lian-chu Chow and Sun yat-sen were
certainly as rivals sung represented a
great hope for the KMT and perhaps for
the future of the nation it was quite a
charismatic guy not a bad speaker after
the heady victory of his party in the
elections
seongjo ran railed particularly hard E&C
and sure chi and how he was running
rough
shot over the New Republic of China
government systems so new the
freshly-minted kmt even though they had
a majority in the lower house at the
National Assembly was toothless before
your N and his Bayon cleek lacking a
more attractive option sung at first
opted hold his nose and began to work
with your end but you're a new song
hollering this ambitious young firebrand
of a revolutionary so politically astute
so filled with energy and patriotism and
so committed to democratic principles
was politically nothing but a threat to
him and for this reason although it was
never proven beyond the shadow of a
doubt you ain't sure Kai green-lighted
the assassination of some children March
20th 1913 definitely a date that will
live on in Chinese historical infamy at
10:40 p.m. on a train platform in
Shanghai one shot from behind was all it
took some chowder and died two days
later just before he took his final
breath song had written a letter to
ensure Chi saying quote I die with deep
regret I humbly hope that your
excellency will champion honesty
propagate justice and promote democracy
end quote
the suspects in the assassination all
died mysteriously or disappeared
plenty of people benefited from some
chow Lorenz death but all the leads
pointed to ensure Chi no one ever found
the smoking gun that tied your end two
songs death but he had the most to gain
with some chowder and out of the way the
great Ngati Epstein in his December 2012
piece for The Economist a PDF of which I
keep on my hard drive just for moments
like these called your n quote the
cartoon villain of this tale with bushy
mustache round open face and slightly
overfed build of an indulged monarch end
quote it was clear by
now that there were two things you and
shirk I did not want a premier who could
challenge him in the government and a
constitution that would tie his hands
and limit his powers he was no George
Washington well so much for that who was
barely more than a year between the time
of five-year-old Emperor puh-leeze
abdication and song shower ends
assassination all that heady talk and
high hopes for you and shirk I to become
this leader he was never meant to be all
that went out the window
on April 26 1913 un inked a foreign
syndicated loan of 25 million pounds
sterling
then he went right over the head of the
parliament and signed it himself and
where do you think that 25 million quid
ended up it all went to bolstering the
Bayon cleek Enterprise directly and
indirectly the KMT the Nationalist Party
the one formed by some shower end
revolted against UN and his Bey yank
leaked and from July to September 1913
civil war broke out
many of the provinces declared
independence from the Bayon government
on Wei Zheng XI Guangdong Hunan and this
event was called the second revolution
the earth took mean it was the
revolutionaries of the south led by Sun
yat-sen and their military allies who
also had an axe to grind with you and
shirk I joining forces in an attempt to
defeat the Bayon clique they may have
performed poorly against Japan in the
first sino-japanese war but against
these armies to the south the Bey young
army swatted these revolutionary forces
down no time at all and now everything
was out in the open all this animosity
that existed on both sides what a
difference a year can make Sun yat-sen
knowing correctly that you and shirk I
wasn't gonna take kindly to this
operating fled the country in August and
set himself up in exile in Japan
planning his next move I know
member forth 1913 someone will be
hearing more about in part three future
warlord Chun soon after he took back
nanjing to effectively end the second
revolution he later got the okay from
the top levels of the bay young
organization to pillage and plunder the
city and in that month un shirk I called
for the KMT to be dissolved so January
1914 was a mini Great Leap Forward as
far as the stage getting set for the
warlord era un shuddered the National
Assembly no dictators like heaven those
around and to place a fig leaf over the
reality of his new strongman rule UN put
a 65 man Congress or committee or
whatever you want to call it in place
that looked and acted like a
representative body except that everyone
represented you and shirk I on May 1st
1914 UN annulled the 1912 provisional
Constitution and his new version of the
Constitution gave him a little more
elbow room as far as dictatorial powers
went yeah pretty much everything that
had been put in place to get democracy
up and running in China was
deconstructed and your n changed the
term of President to ten years with no
term limits if you and shirk I wanted to
become president for life it was all up
to him in each and every province UN put
in place these doodoos who were military
governors in charge of civil
administration and each of these
military governors were all beholden to
you ensure Chi and by nurturing this
system of putting all his hand-selected
military officers in place in every
province this turned out to be one more
brick in the wall as far as the
establishment of warlordism in China and
everyone who had argued since the time
of the Guangxu Emperor that a Republican
form of government would never be able
to get off the ground in China were
proven right UN had effectively turned
himself into an emperor
which sort of got him thinking well 1915
what a year that was in China January
18th
the Japanese through the twenty-one
demands and China's face we discussed
that more than a few times in the past
what your insurer kai ended up signing
on may 9th of that year had the worst of
Japan's gimmies excised from the
twenty-one demands agreement but it was
still pretty bad after the ink was dry
your insurer Kai's PR team had a lot of
explaining to do right here with the
signing of Japan's twenty-one demands is
where anti un sherk high sentiment
starts to catch fire nationally and not
only with your n with this act forcing
the twenty-one demands on China even in
its diluted final form with this act
Japan took that first major step that
would cause a sea change in
anti-japanese sentiments in China and
some could argue that sentiment is still
smouldering today a hundred and four
years later and in the previous year on
June 28th 1914 Archduke Franz Ferdinand
and his missus gunned down in Sarajevo
we all know what happens in the wake of
that so now amidst the wreckage of the
failed Republic of China the twenty-one
demands and un shirk eyes power plays
now we have World War one playing in the
background a terrible distraction for
the European powers in China a blessing
for the Japanese though all this history
we've discussed a few times before let's
talk about the stuff that laid the
groundwork for the warlord era there's
really two more chapters in this epic
saga to go before the horses rush out of
the starting gate and it's every warlord
for himself the first of course is you
ensure Kai's ill-advised attempt at
restoring the monarchy with himself as
Emperor many credits are give too much
credit to the American Frank good now
for being the one who put this bug in
your ends here about you know declaring
himself Emperor good now had come to
China
with the backing of the Carnegie
Endowment and a recommendation from the
former president of Harvard and he was
sent to Beijing to be an advisor to
insure Kai for the drafting of that new
constitution the one that opened the
door to no term limits for the president
ie reinsure Kai but as far as his place
in history what we remember Frank good
now for was his assertion that democracy
had no place in China the country still
had a long way to go good know had
arrived in Beijing only six weeks after
some gerunds assassination and only saw
the aftermath which involved a lot of
protests and riots so based on this
experience Goodnow said China it's more
suited to monarchy and though we didn't
whisper into your answer that he should
really consider making himself emperor
of China it was very nice and
respectable justification and UN surely
took it to heart and so we got one step
closer to the warlord era when you
insure Kai end of 1915 declared his
intention to form a new dynasty and
proclaim himself emperor of China that
decision to put it mildly was a mistake
all of the authoritarian measures UN had
instituted changing the Constitution
outlawing the KMT sidelining political
rivals this had already caused a deep
division in the country and now this
well you ensure Kai or the home Qin
Emperor as he was called after the
accession rights were held a New Year's
Day 1916 he couldn't pass out peerages
fast enough to all his supporters and
hangers-on all the military leaders and
future warlords who we'll discuss in the
coming episodes were made Prince's Dukes
marquesses counts vie counts and barons
the whole thing could be summarized in a
single word shambolic UN didn't have
long to live but he lived long enough to
regret this too
vision even his subordinates at the top
rungs of the military thought you're in
want a bridge too far with this whole
Emperor thing
the most immediate upshot of this
instant tobacco for yen was the national
protection war the who Gua chang-jung it
all started way down in the southwest in
Yunnan Province three generals there who
ran the province Tung Chee y'all SIA and
Lee Lee at June and Christmas Day 1915
all declared independence from UN's
government and went on the offensive in
the meantime the two adjacent provinces
to Yunnan namely cuejoe and Guang XI
same thing they broke free it rose up
against UN and then as soon as the
provinces of Guangdong Shandong Hunan
Shaanxi Jiang Shi and Jiangsu drew their
lot in with the national protection army
as it was called you and shirk I knew he
miscalculated a March 22nd 1916 on what
would have been some Joanne's 34th
birthday you ain't sure Kai abdicated
and called the whole thing off now this
smart move diffused matters with respect
to the national protection war even some
of your aunt's own Bayon generals had
exhibited much diminished enthusiasm and
their encounters with national
protection army forces after all it
wasn't clear what was in it for them as
far as their personal power base with
your n ruling as an emperor rather than
as an old-fashioned military dictator
but the southern military strongman they
had had enough of this whole failed
experiment and pretending to cooperate
with UN sure Kai and his Bey on cleek
from here on out they turned their backs
on any calls for national unity this
really complicates the telling of our
story this northern and southern split
for the rest of the series
there were always multiple narratives
happening and all their individual
histories all played out at the same
time
and we're in
wine here and there what a videogame
this would make with an epic cast of
potential characters the warlords of
north china eastern china southwest
china and in the northwest
then on the 6th of June 1916 against
York I died suddenly just like that and
that system he had put in place and
nurtured with all these doodoos these
military governors all in place there
was no longer one ring to rule them all
to use a well-worn metaphor and so we
arrived at what most history books call
the actual starting points of the
warlord era with the death of un Sherk i
it all began here with UN's death where
now even though his prestige was
diminished by the whole emperor fiasco
signing of the twenty-one demands the
civil war that was ramping up he didn't
have too much to show for as far as
accomplishments over the past few years
regardless he held everything together
using the traditional system of personal
relationships with military governors he
placed throughout the provinces in China
within his political and military reach
it worked in the Jo dynasty still work
3,000 years later some of those guys out
in the provinces with their weapons and
soldiers they hit ambition too and with
un gone and a bunch of them are gonna
test the limits of their greed and
authority over their various territories
of China and next episode we'll pick up
right there exit your ensure Kai and
enter Tuan cheer a Funko Chun and our
host of others again thanks to all you
patreon subscribers I hope you're
enjoying those stories lots more to come
patreon.com slash china history podcast
if you want to join in the phone for
less than the price of half a shawarma
help support the CHP don't be shy if you
prefer Pay Pal as your donation platform
of choice I'll have a link to that in
the show notes and at the website
at teacup dot media that's it for now my
eternal thanks if you lasted this far
this is Laszlo Montgomery signing off
from Los Angeles California a warlord
era part 3 coming next time you could
put that in the bank start earning
interest on that today so please do join
me then
same bat-time same bat-channel for
another exciting episode of that china
history podcast